舞台 / 银幕 / 娱乐 Stage & Screen & Entertainment
=================================================

1.原声 Soundtrack
-----------------

原声即电影、电视剧等电视节目、游戏、书等作品中所使用的音乐，通常是无人声演唱或不以人声演唱为主的背景音乐，也包括这些作品中使用的歌曲。

配乐可以是伴随和同步于电影、书籍、电视节目或视频游戏的图像的录制的音乐；可以是电影或电视节目的配乐的商业发行的配乐专辑；或者是包含同步录制的声音的电影的物理区域。在电影业的术语用法中，音轨是在电影制作或后期制作中创建或使用的音频记录。最初，电影中的对话、音效和音乐都有自己的单独音轨(对话音轨、音效音轨和音乐音轨)，然后将这些音轨混合在一起，形成电影中听到的所谓的合成音轨。当电影被配音成另一种语言时，配音轨道通常是后来创建的。这也被称为M&E音轨(音乐和效果)，其中包含所有声音元素减去对白，然后由外国发行商以其领土的母语提供。20世纪40年代末，随着所谓的“配乐专辑”的出现，收缩的配乐进入了公众的意识。最初由电影公司构思，作为新电影的宣传噱头，这些商业上可以买到的唱片被贴上标签，并打上广告称“来自原始电影原声带的音乐”，或“来自电影的音乐和受其启发的音乐”。这些短语很快就被缩短为“原创电影配乐”。更准确地说，这样的录音是由电影的音乐轨道制作的，因为它们通常由电影中孤立的音乐组成，而不是带有对话和音效的合成(声音)轨道。缩写OST通常用于描述已录制介质(如CD)上的音乐配乐，它代表原创配乐；但是，它有时也用于区分所听到和录制的原始音乐与重新录制或翻唱的音乐。

A soundtrack can be recorded music accompanying and synchronized to the
images of a motion picture, book, television program or video game; a
commercially released soundtrack album of music as featured in the
soundtrack of a film or TV show; or the physical area of a film that
contains the synchronized recorded sound.

In movie industry terminology usage, a sound track is an audio recording
created or used in film production or post-production. Initially the
dialogue, sound effects, and music in a film each has its own separate
track (dialogue track, sound effects track, and music track), and these
are mixed together to make what is called the composite track, which is
heard in the film. A dubbing track is often later created when films are
dubbed into another language. This is also known as a M & E track (music
and effects) containing all sound elements minus dialogue which is then
supplied by the foreign distributor in the native language of its
territory.

The contraction soundtrack came into public consciousness with the
advent of so-called “soundtrack albums” in the late 1940s. First
conceived by movie companies as a promotional gimmick for new films,
these commercially available recordings were labeled and advertised as
“music from the original motion picture soundtrack”, or “music from and
inspired by the motion picture.” These phrases was soon shortened to
just “original motion picture soundtrack.” More accurately, such
recordings are made from a film’s music track, because they usually
consist of the isolated music from a film, not the composite (sound)
track with dialogue and sound effects.

The abbreviation OST is often used to describe the musical soundtrack on
a recorded medium, such as CD, and it stands for Original Soundtrack;
however, it is sometimes also used to differentiate the original music
heard and recorded versus a rerecording or cover of the music.

2.电影原声 Film Score
---------------------

电影原声其原意是指电影声音中的音乐轨（另外还有对白、音效等，都录制在不同的音轨上），但现在已经泛指因电影而发行的音乐唱片，可以分成以下3种基本型态：
　

1.以歌曲为主的歌曲原声唱片（Song-Oriented Soundtrack Album）
这是最常见的一种Soundtrack，因为其商业利益比纯配乐唱片要高出很多倍。绝大多数时候，这些歌曲都是现成品，但也有一些是真正为电影而创作的原著歌曲，比如《毕业生》是最典型的例子。
　　

2.以配乐为主体的原声唱片（Original Dramatic Scores On Record）
真正将电影中的音乐轨直接翻录成唱片的情况很少，一般原声唱片发行时，是将原始的Soundtrack进行删减并重新组合编排，以达到音乐的流畅性和完整感。但也有不是取自原始Original
Soundtrack，而是音乐家根据配乐原谱，重新为发行唱片而特别选曲，有时还会重新改写编辑，重新演绎灌录，而这往往是大片巨制的做法。
　　

3.没有使用在电影中，但挂名为电影原声唱片的音乐专辑（Music Inspired by
Motion Picture）
这当然是一种纯商业行为，而且也已经越来越普遍，甚至一部完全没有音乐的电影也会发行原声唱片。还有一种情况是“落选配乐”Rejected
Score，就是音乐家已经完成的作品，最后没有使用在电影中，后来又发行了电影原声唱片，最著名的例子是Alex
North为《2001年太空漫游》所做的“落选配乐”。 　　

以上只是3种基本型态，而实际上很多原声唱片是混合型的，其中混合了歌曲（不管它是否真的出现过）、原著配乐、演奏单曲等，甚至会有没有使用在电影里的音乐片段，以及电影中的音效对白等。而且，一部电影可能会发行好几张不同形态、不同版本的原声唱片。

Film Music works in conjunction with dialogue and image to establish the
mood and tone of a movie; classical, jazz, electronic — regardless of
genre, any material composed or scored expressly for use in a motion
picture can be defined as film music. A soundtrack album, on the other
hand, is not necessarily film music, as many of the songs that make up
the record (as with those for American Graffiti, The Big Chill, Dirty
Dancing, and so forth) were not originally intended for use in the
movie, and other times (as in Batman Forever) don’t even appear in the
actual feature at all.

3.电视原声 Television Music
---------------------------

电视配乐即电视剧中所使用的音乐，包括无人声演唱或不以人声演唱为主的背景音乐，也包括这些剧中使用的歌曲，或者电视主题曲插曲等。

4.卡通配乐 Cartoon Music
------------------------

卡通音乐的历史主要工作围绕着作曲家/编曲Carl
Stalling，他在著名华纳兄弟公司的动画工作室担任了20年音乐总监。充满激情而疯狂的Stalling创造了新的方式，跟随屏幕上视觉轨迹的替代了被动的创作规律。卡通音乐如我们所熟知的迪斯尼动画配乐。

The history of Cartoon Music centers primarily around the work of
composer/arranger Carl Stalling, who served as the musical director at
the famed Warner Bros. animation studios for two decades. Frenzied and
impassioned, Stalling’s work broke new ground by following the visual
trajectory of the on-screen action instead of the accepted rules of
composition. The result — a technique not anchored in conventional
senses of time, rhythm, or thematic development — was unprecedented in
its extremism, as melody, style, and form crashed together in a glorious
pile-up of sound and image perfectly attuned to the crazed imagery it
underscored. Stalling’s WB music created the basic formula which cartoon
scores continue to follow even today, although from the rock era onward,
more conventional pop songs have also played a key role in animated
productions as well. Many series (like Josie & the Pussycats and
Jabberjaw) have focused on fictional rock bands, while latter-day Disney
productions have featured scores by pop stars including Elton John and
Phil Collins.

5.游戏配乐 Video Game Music
---------------------------

游戏被称为第九种艺术，是各项艺术的完美集合体。游戏是一个独立的、完整的世界。这个缔造的世界里面，音乐是不可或缺的因素。游戏的玩家在探索着未知的游戏世界时，在一张张完全不同的游戏地图里面徘徊探索，完全融入了那个世界里面。音乐有着不可或却的作用。

在九十年代之前，游戏音乐是由Trent
Reznor、Fluke这样的音乐家创作的，他们正视舞曲、电子乐及摇滚。而且，早期的游戏音乐中暗示出的重复、如催眠一般的节奏被证明奠定了现代舞曲的根基。

Video Game Music refers to the tinny, electronic music that is played in
the background during video games. At first, video game music was
cheaply-produced, naggingly catchy computer music, but as the systems
became more sophisticated, so did the music. By the mid-’90s, video game
music was being composed by such musicians as Trent Reznor and Fluke,
two artists who had come to grips with electronic music, dance, and
rock. And, in a weird way, it demonstrated that the early days of video
game music suggested the repetitive, hypnotic electronic rhythms that
became the foundation of modern dance and techno.

6.音乐剧 Musical theatre
------------------------

音乐剧是20世纪出现的一门新兴的综合舞台艺术，集歌、舞、剧为一体，结合了音乐、歌曲、舞蹈、戏剧、杂耍、特技和综艺等表演形式，广泛地采用了高科技的舞美技术，不断追求视觉效果和听觉效果的完美结合。它以幽默、讽刺、感伤、爱情、愤怒等情感引发剧情，再通过演员的语言、音乐、动作以及固定的演绎传达给观众。虽然音乐剧和歌剧、舞剧、话剧等舞台表演形式有相似之处，但它的独特之处在于：它对歌曲、对白、肢体动作、表演等等因素给予同样的重视。一些著名的音乐剧包括：奥克拉荷马、音乐之声、西区故事、悲惨世界、猫以及歌剧魅影等。

音乐剧在全世界各地都有上演，但演出最频密的地方是美国纽约市的百老汇和英国的伦敦西区。因此百老汇音乐剧这个称谓可以指在百老汇地区上演的音乐剧，又往往可是泛指所有近似百老汇风格的音乐剧。而习惯上称呼为音乐剧的戏剧，多是指西方音乐剧。一些著名的音乐剧包括：奥克拉荷马、音乐之声、西区故事、悲惨世界、猫以及歌剧魅影等。

特色及结构：

音乐剧的文本由以下几个部份组成：音乐的部份称为乐谱（score）、歌唱的字句称为歌词（lyrics）、对白的字句称为剧本（book/script）。有时音乐剧也会沿用歌剧里面的称谓，将歌词和剧本统称为曲本（libretto）。

音乐剧的长度并没有固定标准，但大多数音乐剧的长度都介乎两小时至三小时之间。通常分为两幕，间以中场休息。如果将歌曲的重复和背景音乐计算在内，一出完整的音乐剧通常包含二十至三十首曲。

音乐剧普遍比歌剧有更多舞蹈的成份，早期的音乐剧甚至是没有剧本的歌舞表演。虽然著名的歌剧作曲家华格纳（Richard
Wagner）在十九世纪中期已经提出总体艺术（Gesamtkunstwerk），认为音乐和戏剧应融合为一。但在华格纳的乐剧（music
drama）里面音乐依然是主导，相比之下，音乐剧里戏剧、舞蹈的成份更重要。

音乐剧擅于以音乐和舞蹈表达人物的情感、故事的发展和戏剧的冲突，有时语言无法表达的强烈情感，可以利用音乐和舞蹈表达。在戏剧表达的形式上，音乐剧是属于表现主义的。在一首曲之中，时空可以被压缩或放大，例如男女主角可以在一首歌曲的过程之中由相识变成堕入爱河，这是一般写实主义的戏剧中不容许的。

西方音乐剧的历史：

音乐剧起源可以追溯到十九世纪的轻歌剧（Operetta）、喜剧（Comedy）和黑人剧（Minstrel
Shows）。

初期的音乐剧并没有固定剧本，甚至包含了杂技、马戏等等元素。自从1927年演艺船（画舫璇宫）开始着重文本之后，音乐剧开始踏入它的黄金岁月。这时期的音乐剧多宣扬乐观思想，并经常以大团圆的喜剧结局。直至1960年代摇滚乐和电视普及之前，音乐剧一直是最受美国人欢迎的娱乐和演艺形式。1980年代以后，英国伦敦西区（West
End）的音乐剧演出蓬勃，已经追上百老汇的盛况。后来甚至出现法文的音乐剧，如悲惨世界（后改编为英文版，曾在百老汇演出）、星梦Starmania、钟楼怪人、罗密欧与茱丽叶、小王子等等。

而随着英国和美国的音乐剧经常在世界各地巡回演出，音乐剧也开始在日本、韩国、中国、台湾、香港、新加坡等亚洲地区流行。参见亚洲的音乐剧。

亚洲的音乐剧：

据香港七十年代的杂志《南极星》记载，香港最早的原创音乐剧是七十年代初潘迪华主演的《白娘娘》。一九八零年香港话剧团曾演出翻译成广东话的百老汇音乐剧《西区故事》。此后越来越多团体制作音乐剧，比较著名的有雪狼湖、遇上1941的女孩、边城、四川好人、一屋宝贝等等。

Musical theatre is a form of theatrical performance that combines songs,
spoken dialogue, acting, and dance. The story and emotional content of a
musical – humor, pathos, love, anger – are communicated through the
words, music, movement and technical aspects of the entertainment as an
integrated whole. Although musical theatre overlaps with other
theatrical forms like opera and dance, it may be distinguished by the
equal importance given to the music as compared with the dialogue,
movement and other elements. Since the early 20th century, musical
theatre stage works have generally been called, simply, musicals.

Although music has been a part of dramatic presentations since ancient
times, modern Western musical theatre emerged during the 19th century,
with many structural elements established by the works of Gilbert and
Sullivan in Britain and those of Harrigan and Hart in America. These
were followed by the numerous Edwardian musical comedies and the musical
theatre works of American creators like George M. Cohan. The Princess
Theatre musicals and other smart shows like Of Thee I Sing (1931) were
artistic steps forward beyond revues and other frothy entertainments of
the early 20th century and led to such groundbreaking works as Show Boat
(1927) and Oklahoma! (1943). Some of the most famous and iconic musicals
through the decades that followed include West Side Story (1957), The
Fantasticks (1960), Hair (1967), A Chorus Line (1975), Les Misérables
(1985), The Phantom of the Opera (1986), Rent (1994), The Producers
(2001) and Wicked (2003).

Musicals are performed all around the world. They may be presented in
large venues, such as big budget West End and Broadway theatre
productions in London and New York, or in smaller fringe theatre,
Off-Broadway or regional theatre productions, on tour, or by amateur
groups in schools, theatres and other performance spaces. In addition to
Britain and North America, there are vibrant musical theatre scenes in
many countries in Europe, Latin America, Australasia and Asia.

7.歌舞剧 Cabaret
----------------

8.演出金曲 Show Tunes
---------------------

Show
Tunes是从音乐戏剧和电影精选出的曲目。这些歌曲通常由专业的词曲作者创作，并且由演绎传统曲调的演员或歌手演唱。百老汇音乐剧产生出大量不同的歌曲，前奏曲、间奏曲、后奏曲、主题曲。任何一首出自百老汇的歌曲都可以被认为是Show
Tunes. are the songs that have been featured in musical plays and films.
The songs are usually written by professional songwriters, and are sung
by the original cast or by vocalists that interpret show tunes and
traditional pop. Broadway musicals generate a number of different songs,
preludes, interludes, postludes, and theme songs. Any musical song from
a Broadway musical can be considered a show tune, specifically in
reference to the memorable melody. Most of Cole Porter’s songs were show
tunes. Andrew Llloyd Weber’s generation of hit songs are all show tunes,
including songs from The Phantom of the Opera, like “Music of the Night”
and “All I Ask of You.”

9.圣诞歌曲 Christmas Music
--------------------------

年终岁末，当圣诞歌声四处响起的时候，就是人们准备欢度 圣诞节
的时候了。人们等不到12月25日的到来，几周之前就开始用圣诞歌曲来烘托节日气氛。无论你走到哪里，都能听到曲调不同、内容各异的圣诞歌，或雅或俗，亦庄亦谐，无处不在。

没有哪个节日像 圣诞节
这样歌曲多、歌者众的了。追溯历史，有记载的圣诞歌曲以及与圣诞沾边的民歌、颂歌、诗词歌赋不下千首。然而能像常青树一样长盛不衰、朗朗上口的歌却“倔指可数”——音乐史学家威廉·史迪威是国际公认的研究圣诞歌曲的专家，他所认定的“倔指可数”也有五十多首之多。

圣诞歌曲在音乐领域里自成一家，但它又像圣诞老人袜子里的礼物一样五彩斑斓。有的是美国人的作品;有的是传承欧洲前人的遗产;有的庄严肃穆;有的轻松活泼;还有的诙谐幽默。

Christmas music comprises a variety of genres of music normally
performed or heard around the Christmas season.

10.宝莱坞电影配乐 Bollywood
---------------------------

11.节日音乐 Holiday
-------------------

12.史诗片配乐 Epic Score
------------------------
